so the three things I wanted to cover
with you today the first of all is web
objects and Apple where web objects fit
instance into the Apple family secondly
where web objects is today or promise I
should say yesterday and where we're
going today and tomorrow moving forward
so and Steve mentioned at Macworld in
New York Apple is always been known for
being the world's best personal
computers having a really great killer
desktop platform but it's today's age of
the internet we really want to be
thinking outside of the box
and so why a lot of what we do
particularly Mac os10 is focusing on the
desktop there's a lot of things to do
that are focused on the internet
platform things like the QuickTime like
streaming like HTML web design and so
forth Mac OS 10 server and other
products in that family and what we've
done is really taken web objects and
made it our internet engine we think web
objects is the best tool for developing
and deploying applications on the
Internet
it's a powerful engine to interactively
deliver Internet content with HTML PDF
movies Java anything you bend over the
Internet can be supercharged by having
web objects underneath it another way of
looking at that it's a smart way to
bring your applications to the Internet
how many of you have done any sort of
client-server development
okay well for a handful of you a lot of
you probably have how many you have how
many of you currently have applications
that never talk to anything else
everybody has to talk to something
whether it's a local data store whether
it's other applications where this web
server is whether it's to get updates
whether it's to get new content whether
it's to send customer registration
information back and forth web objects
is now an incredibly powerful way to
build this relationship with your
customer to your application to you over
the Internet and this is also what Apple
has done with web objects ourselves it
is our internet engine is the system
that powers our internet strategy
whether it's the Apple Store Apple comm
I tools I cards developer connection
website all these things are powered
using web objects and we've known it's a
great tool the top three thousand
customers in the largest
websites in the world know that it's a
great and powerful and awesome tool but
we want to make sure that you all can
take advantage of it as well
for those who aren't very familiar with
web objects and the technology let me
just give you a real quick summary of
how it works a traditional web server
just takes static HTML pages and bend
them to a client but often you have
other data sources you want to use to
bring to your customers rather than the
hardwire everything into HTML mainframes
databases ERP systems directory services
etc but what objects does is take all
the information feeds it into an
application server that manages on the
sides of the object and uses that to
dynamically generate HTML pages or
equivalently Java which can be blended
to any client because it's a fully
scalable what's called a three-tier
system you can easily add new
application servers into the mix and
dynamically create a very highly
scalable robust fault-tolerant web
application service web objects have
been the industry's leading application
server allows callable deployment on a
number of platforms has a very powerful
rich set of graphical development tools
which not only allow code free
development like you saw this morning
but also very powerful in-depth
customization because a very rich public
API building a cup of extremely powerful
well tested objects and these allow you
to connect basically any kind of
structured data whether it's a database
directory service materials management
system etc and the benefits of this are
threefold first of all you get
incredible productivity with web objects
up to ten times faster than traditional
alternative development tool we have a
fully integrated suite of development
tools so we're planning on supercharging
even more going forward we really
learned a lot of lessons in the last you
know this code base is built on the old
next step open step DB kit technology
has been around since the early 90s
longer than any other tool in this class
and our team has really learned a lot of
lessons as we've done various
generations of this project to make sure
we have a very powerful object oriented
architecture something that's very
difficult to build properly but we've
got more experience than probably
anybody else in the world secondly it
has very powerful integration services
you can store your data pretty much
anywhere and access it in a single
application on a single client talking
to a multitude of different data
services of all sorts of different types
and it's a very high performance
solution used to run things like the
Apple Store multi-threaded multiple
instances on a single system also can be
transferred from a Mac os10 service
system up to high-end multi CPU Solaris
and HP boxes so just to give you a quick
summary where we are with the currently
shipping versions of web objects we
really feel like we've had the best
technology the coolest solutions and a
totally awesome business the technology
that we released this March was
webobjects 4.5 which you believe is
smarter easier and even more
interoperable in previous generations of
web objects the system is a lot smarter
in its ability to analyze and report
performance issues to manage reconnects
and failures to your database it's
easier than ever to develop solutions
using the new direct to Java client as
well as a redesigned web objects builder
for creating dynamic HTML components and
even more interoperable by including
great support for parsing and
integrating xml data as well as
connecting with directory services such
as LDAP what objects is complete a huge
streak of winning awards most recently a
kodi from the software and information
industry association for best
application development tool best
application server from java developer
journal this is the 1999 Java developers
journal our developers haven't been
quite as aggressive this year with the
voting feel free to join in if you agree
with me that this was a very cool tool
that deserves to be recognized and then
we also want the software product of the
Year from Network computing for being
very well connected and also being a
great application server so we've got a
huge list of awards they're all on the
website to get the most tedious to
recite them all a lot of people have
learned that this is a great tool and
one of the food's still great is because
we really believe in industry standards
we plan a host of different systems we
support a multitude of different
languages we integrate with a whole slew
of different development technologies
whatever scripting languages or C++ or
data formats such as XML and weave data
adaptors to most SQL databases LDAP core
body comm the variety of third parties
to provide
well the connectivity solution and the
customers today read like a top 100 list
of the web you've heard all the names
BBC Consumers Digest Disney Triple A
logistics us web Adobe the US Postal
Service these are all just very highly
demanding companies that really need a
very powerful solution with very rapid
time to market and they found web object
the perfect solution for their needs in
order to reach and we have a couple of
quotes here from people who really
leverage the dynamic HTML creation
process integration with corba and Java
compatible architectures and the list
goes on and on and on we have a number
of incredibly talented partners they
really make the web object technology
come alive and map to your business
solutions whether that's for HTML design
tools databases reporting tools
integration with PDF and others
technologies we've hundreds of
developers who've been working very
closely with us for years to really
build robust flexible solutions
customized to different vertical markets
and we this is really paid off we have
first time we've been first to market
within the web application server space
we essentially created it several years
ago with the first version of web
objects the last time they don't run the
numbers we were the number one in market
share we have a phenomenal growth margin
and double-digit growth and we've just
really pleased with the business and it
really due to an awesome team we've
obviously had a dedicated self
Salesforce focus exclusively around
these types of high end enterprise class
solutions we the whole army of trained
consultants works fairly knowledgeable
and passionate about the solutions a
very sophisticated training program
which will see it on your demo CD some
of the fruits of that as well as a
worldwide network of resellers and a
very talented and focused engineering
group and as we say it's been doing
object oriented development for you know
hundreds of man years but to just give
you a taste of where we are just today
with web objects I've asked Andrea Sven
Carr from the rapid deployment team of
web objects to give a walk through the
demo that you saw this morning well
everyone here at the keynote today yeah
you like it
okay time go put a little bit more
slowly to get a better idea of what it
was that we did during the keynote why'd
you start with the direct HTML
connection there this is a traditional
web logical application that web objects
3 5 or what live Explorer developer
would be comfortable with will object 4
o we introduce a new technology called
direct to web which basically logic very
quickly step through a database and just
say these are the various fields I care
about give me a user interface that's
built on that you get a very nice simple
clean elegant looking HTML based user
interface with the different pop up
buttons and search fields you can search
on a field do a query pull back a detail
etc and it's very nice and simple and
very quick and easy to get up and
running but it's a very limited
interface right it just it looks like
you're running on something with the
notch or two above at T and 3270
terminal but doesn't really have the
look and feel of a modern rich operating
system doesn't really love with all the
power you have sitting with a g3 or g4
processor on your desktop so we looked
at this and we said well you know this
is kind of nice but this is mat this is
double WDC this is Steve Jobs we're
talking about we can have them showing
this you know we need something really
sexier so they said well okay give me a
few minutes let me see what I can throw
together and say okay I'd receive a few
minutes let's see what you can throw
together so this is the new project
builder that's available as part of DP
for weave custom hacked it to support
web objects the version you have on DP
for today does not yet support web
objects it will very soon but we just
pick an assistant there in this case be
director Java client which is a new
technology introducing web objects 4 5
in March we just give it a name so it's
a database model and this is really the
hardest job if you're managing a
database application is understanding
your model what are your relationships
what are the important schema but once
you create that model you know using the
dollars of the database web objects
points are really easy to take that
information and turn it into a dynamic
application it was very sophisticated
heuristics to determine what are the
primary tables in that database which
need to be rendered differently and just
go ahead and build it basically it
creates a very simple shell server
application which then talked to a very
simple
shell client application so you saw the
code there's basically three or four
code and three or four lines of code and
mostly they just say hi I'm running now
all the work is taken care of by the
frameworks that are already built into
web objects so you can start here and
just build this application very quickly
and then you launch a generic Java
client this is something they can
download from the web or you have one
client pre-installed on a machine all
you basically have to do is add a URL
telling which server talks to it
connects to the server the server knows
ok this client I can tell this
information to it generates the XML
describing the data that client
dynamically renders that into a user
interface adjust the sizes and widths of
things that it could reasonably on a
page and as you see they're all
alphabetized this isn't the hand-tuned
thing this is just how it comes out
straight from the director Java client
very powerful technology leveraging the
power of Java and aqua on Mac OS 10 and
you can do a search you can bring up a
detail view and we also did a little bit
of work to integrate a QuickTime movie
view into the context of java
application it's something that you
could do using the QuickTime for Java
clients available and yeah so you see
here Queen Amidala meditating in deep
thought about the destruction of her
world
and that's the woman there it is in five
minutes
complete director Webb got application
Thank You Andrea and like they say you
don't have to take my word for it you
can go home with you well objects four
or five technology we've given to you in
the developers backpack run on Mac OS 10
server or Windows NT and be able to
immediately get up and running with web
objects and built an application just
like that yourself I don't think that
the Java and Mac OS 10 is quite up to
snuff with what we have here but you
probably even get a basic java
application running today on top of Mac
OS 10 DP for and get a little feel for
what that looks like so this is really
really cool awesome and powerful
technology we wanted to go so much
further than we have in the past and so
we really sort of set ourselves three
goals and the biggest area it's really
kind of make this a lower barrier to
entry a lot of people who really love
live objects lead incredibly cool but
you know you work in the thousand dollar
application space or you do sort of a
one-person small consulting shop for
small businesses they can't afford it's
$50,000 server you know what this power
tilde really cool applications or
websites for your customers so we're
focusing to make the technology more
accessible expanding the array of
solutions available and creating a whole
new business model for driving this
really into the mainstream so start
talking about the new technology I've
asked Tony tree he'll be on the director
of robotics engineering to share a few
words about the upcoming version of web
objects I'm gonna run
thanks learning so as you heard earlier
in the keynote Steve mentioned we have a
new release coming out later this year
and we are calling it webobjects five
for Java for a good reason we're going
to be translating our frameworks into
100% pure Java we believe this will help
you guys and make the product more
usable by Java developers at first
glance you can deploy it anywhere and
I'd like to announce that we're now
going to be qualifying the product on
Lenox we're also going to be including a
JDBC for Universal database connectivity
and some inoperable inoperability
standards for the Internet sorry we'll
be talking more about enterprise
javabeans and XML later on in the week
so please make sure you join us at the
sessions so as you heard and as you saw
earlier today that we're going to be
optimizing for Mac OS 10 already
mentions that the CD that you have in
your backpacks doesn't work on ten but
the product that we're working on now
when we released it will work on ten and
you'll see that aqua user interface in
that release will also be using the new
project builder that you saw in the demo
and we have a couple more exciting
opportunities in the future we'll be
working with Apple script and network
imposed directory services so with that
I'd like to invite francois show up to
give a demo hi everyone hi everyone
my name is Francois Zulu and I'm going
to present you this Weber's exams I have
a version we call web 6 5.0 ok so when I
guess what OS we are running here any
gas now not empty we have a Linux block
here we have a Mac OS 10 server box
which is a meaningless day and we are
going to take one example out of the box
from WebEx 5.0 and run it on those
machines so run here are my charming
assistant one absolutely we'll we'll try
the create flat example so as you see we
can run web objects Java out of project
builder so well as X Java is compatible
with web FX 4 5 which is side-by-side
with it and the same project window is
used so run will compile the application
which is a 4.5 examples that we have
translated in Java and now the
application is running on my question
server and I'm going to access it to the
browser which is here ok so this is a
this is actually an interesting example
because it has a small graphic engine
underneath that enables it to draw some
grass for example here we have a pie
chart I can type whatever I want so
you'll let you see that the graphs are
done on the fly ok and as always you
have access to the statistics pages
to show you that we are running here on
Rhapsody 520 it is my quest 10 server to
on the JDK 1.1 dot 6 so now we are going
to say to take the executive all that
was built on Mac OS x server and tar it
and copy it over to the Linux box so as
you know Java you build once on you run
anywhere while it is true as well above
excellence the reason why we're moving
there so Ronnie's or Linux guru and he
knows very well that are common to okay
so could you please switch to Machine
number two so you see DC Linux running X
and we are doing the FTP
this is really Xena it's almost on okay
so the package has been thought up and
moved okay here in red demo data so both
of these always have eunuchs at the base
of the same command can be used to enter
it so here's something very interesting
we do not support yet Linux in your
pre-alpha release so we have to fake or
licensing so that the Java VM believes
it Solaris so that a license to look in
can so now the licensing check path and
the app is ready we can show you okay so
the app is running on Linux and it's
actually the exact same application
there is not much more I can say except
I can go back to the statistics page
and oops we have an exception that's
okay actually I wanted to show you the
exception so you see here we have the
back trace of the of the exception is
actually rendered in the browser and if
we switch back to the machine number
three please my question sir okay so run
run is introduced the run is going to
introduce a bug in the application
perfect let's start again so run is run
either quality engineers with us so it's
a challenge for him to introduce a bug
in enough is used to find them I'm good
at introducing bugs so he is now typing
a very ugly bug actually a
nullpointerexception
and he will run the application again so
I'm going to click on the right link
hopefully you'll see another case of
this exception okay okay so the same app
come up but if run did well when I click
on update graph I'm going to get an
exception well here it is
now you see that you get a back trace
with one with the first line being in
your code and the clickable link here if
I click on the link watch what happens
here
you get straight to the line info
together where they accept an otter
so not only is bad in moving to Java
that's a great example of better
development environment thank you can I
ask you a favor can you bring a little
actually put back the with a Mac left on
that screen and the Linux on that screen
that's what can you do that there in the
Linux on the other screen number two Mac
OS tens idea of Unix
the rest of the world's idea of Unix
gotta love it thanks you can go back to
the slides now so we have inscribe a
powerful technology which is really
getting out in the mainstream but it's
still incredibly sophisticated and one
of the things that people have often
accused Apple of of is creating
simplistic toy machines things that look
cute or look pretty but are under power
don't really scale to really great
complicated solution and with Mac OS 10
and web objects I didn't really bring a
whole different world to answer that
problem as you can see we do have all
the power of viewing for underneath
we're going to heck up a lot more than
that on top which is really accessible
for the ordinary user to accept and
enjoy and if it was just our traditional
Macintosh just as you see with web
object you have incredibly powerful and
simple to use tools that have relatively
unsophisticated developer can get up to
speed on very quickly but there's a lot
of depth and all the UNIX and all the
interaction of the sophisticated tools
going on in the back so one things we
need to do is figure out how do we make
sure that our customers our partners can
really tap all the power that exists
within web objects and Mac OS 10 and
because of that we introduced a whole
new initiative called a polite services
and pleased to announce Scott Anderson
the new director of Apple hi services
here to tell you more about it please
welcome Scott
[Applause]
thanks Ernie
I can't tell you how excited I am to see
four or five hundred people in one room
here to talk about web objects this is
truly a great day for our product and
I'm incredibly proud of what the company
has been able to do and the decisions
we've been able to make around the
technology just to put this in context
I've been with Apple for three years
been prior to Apple with next for almost
seven years so this to me is a
culmination of a lot of events and to
come out of the gates with a pricing
strategy that's as aggressive as it is
and a business strategy for from my
organization that I think is compelling
is really exciting so before I start I
didn't see that the show of hands
earlier in the session how many people
are currently using web objects in the
audience great and how many people here
are familiar with Apple enterprise
software okay a lesser group so for
those of you who are new to the web
objects community apples had a dedicated
organization called apple enterprise
software also known as AES the last
three years and the mandate of AES has
been to sell and deliver consulting and
professional services around web objects
and it's very exciting to know that with
this shift in our product strategy our
move to pure Java and our pricing we're
going to have the opportunity as an
organization to really leverage our
strategic assets a lot more effectively
and quite frankly our value add for
Apple and for apples developers and
customers has always been the fact that
we've got a very sophisticated field
software engineering organization that
can take our technology and our
customers business problems and deliver
compelling solutions built around
Apple's web objects technology so AES
historically here we go
becomes Apple I services okay
Apple I services if we go back in
history what an Aes do AES sold web
objects and delivered services to the
business and enterprise market place
today effective May 15th Apple I
services is dedicated to delivering
custom solutions through our consulting
integration training and support
services to Apple's core markets so
historically it's been business today
moving forward we're going to align
ourselves much more closely with apples
markets and deliver our expertise into
business education the developer market
and the creative new media marketplace
we're also going to be focusing around
expanded suite of technology
historically our business has been built
upon web objects moving forward we're
going to empower our engineers in the
field our systems engineers and
consulting engineers to better
understand quick time to deliver quick
time integration services as well as Mac
OS 10 and what's been interesting as
we've gone through this business
planning evolution is there's over the
last six months a tremendous increase in
requirements from Apple's customers to
have an organization that can help
deliver QuickTime and web objects
integration services and we're already
seeing for many of our open step
customers an opportunity to provide
value-added services to help them move
their openstep apps to Mac OS 10 moving
forward as well so really what's new
about this business model a we're
focused purely on services we're really
hoping that the apple developer
community the price point the move to
pure Java will really help build a
velocity business model for the product
and then lastly we're aligning ourselves
much more closely around Apple's core
markets I want to talk a little bit
about our partners today we really have
three types of partners within the old
construct of AES we have the enterprise
alliance program we have solution
providers and we have systems
integrators the the EAP program which
many of you may be members of is really
a developer program focused around web
objects provided support services and
training as well as product that product
or that program will be transitioned
over into Apple's Worldwide Developer
Relations programs and we'll be
communicating with our EAP members over
the next 30 to 45 days as to what that
transition looks like we've also got a
suite of solution providers folks who
take web objects and build vertical
market solutions around the technology
and take that technology to market and
we have systems integrators folks who
are in the business of delivering custom
solutions who build domain expertise in
the product and go out and help solve
customers problems and I'm hoping
frankly that amongst this group of
developers in the audience today and
participants in the conference in
general there'll be a tremendous
increase in Apple developers to embrace
the product and build solutions using
web objects so I'm hoping you'll all be
part of the program moving forward at
your tremendous opportunity you know
we're looking at the possibility of
extending our business model to include
components and reusable frameworks as
part of our services play we're also
looking at at programs to encourage
vertical market applications we have
with app up vendors today who deliver
solutions into everything from
litigation support to logistics to
e-commerce applications and by
decreasing the barrier of entry and
eliminating the price point on
deployment I'm really hoping that
there'll be a tremendous amount of
increased participation in the program
and lastly I really hope that with our
support as Apple y services product
marketing as well as worldwide developer
relations we can collectively work with
the Apple Developer community and build
a real strong sense of community attract
a larger suite of developers to the
platform and have a bunch of solutions
out there that address specific market
needs that we haven't been able to touch
in the past so at a very high level
that's a little bit about a is we'll be
here later on to to answer any questions
you might happen to have Ernie thank you
very much Scott
and one of the great things about having
a polite services on board is that you
know often there is this the beltway
effect right when you're in a small
community and you hear things a certain
way it's easy to get lots of a certain
mindset the f-fly services people are
out in the field facing all the same
challenges you do as developers kind of
figure out what's going on from Apple
what the directions are what the support
they have available there and they're
incredibly valuable resource for us to
understand what are the issues that you
as developers in the field face so we're
looking forward to this new focus to be
able to partner more closely with them
to really appreciate and understand
developer concerns and make sure we have
the right solutions in place for you to
succeed in meeting the needs of your
customers so that's kind of a whole new
world that we're trying to open up with
and then my dublin product marketing is
trying to take that great technology and
bring it out to these people in the
field so they can build really
compelling solutions so the number of
things we're doing to make that happen
this is the standard peas that people
gun to marketing school learn about the
packaging pricing promotion etc let me
just kind of walk through that real
quickly for you
historically there were two different
development there are two different
products you would buy for web objects
one was the developer product developer
product a deployment product and we're
basically taking those two and putting
them into a single box which is both
developer and deployment now previously
the developer tools cost $14.99
deployment started at 7,500 and went up
to $50,000 we have taken be $50,000
product and the $14.99 product put them
into a single product costing six
hundred and ninety nine dollars
and this isn't like the $4.99 or the $99
product you sometimes get from other
developers when they do a low-end
version of their product which doesn't
have database access or doesn't allow
you to load balance or share this is the
full fifty thousand dollar product in
this little pretty box we had to work
pretty hard to squeeze it in there but
it did fit and this is affecting not
just future going products but today's
products webobjects 4.0.1 and well
hundreds four or five and it's effective
immediately go to the Apple store after
this session it should be up there you
can download and buy today and we're
very excited to be able to really make
this available to a whole bunch of
different customers who never would have
seen it before we're also really
expanding the channel used to access
this technology is no longer just a
niche thing for an enterprise business
if you want to build a one of its
application a couple of options one will
be available to all Apple resellers who
want to carry it you'll probably most
likely be high-end resellers your fries
your value-added resellers your
specialty integrators Apple solution
experts but anyone who works there who
wants to carry can carry it as well as
having it available worldwide on the
Apple Store we're also working to make
it very easy to bundle with your
applications if you have a high-end web
publishing solution you're here to tell
your people to buy it through the normal
channels or you can make it available
for you to deploy along with your
application so you get a serial number
and the right to copy the software to
install in your CDs and make it
available to your customers without
having to go through the hassle of an
additional channel an additional
installation and we're still finalizing
the details of that but our goal to make
it really easy and really transform to
you in your customers so you want to
build a really powerful application it
just happens to include a fifty thousand
dollar web server and underneath you can
charging for two thousand dollars and
pocket the profit for yourself or you
can go much lower markets than you would
be able to do otherwise and if you don't
need resellers who you work with that
carry your product that should be
carrying this you feel free to you know
make sure that they get a hold of this
as well so you can start moving that
into the broad marketplace or the
product family so as of today we have
really three products in the web objects
family that we're focusing on
thing about there are a lot of older
products which are being end-of-life so
we can focus really tightly on these
three projects let me just go over the
platform and language support cuz I know
it gets a little confusing with all the
changes the original version of what
Lobby explore oh that was released
almost a year and a half ago I believe
you could develop a Mac os10 server or
Windows NT you could deploy on those or
Solaris or hp-ux 10.2 10.20 and there
are three different languages
objective-c Java and web script will
bobby's 4.5 was essentially the same
platform support just updated to mac OS
x server 1 to Windows 2000 hp-ux 11i ill
basically and a bunch of new features
and technology obviously with the same
basic platforms moving forward
well objects 4 or 5 4 will object 5 for
Java will be available around the end of
this year and will include support not
just for Mac OS 10 server 1 2 and
Windows NT 2000 with the existing
developer tools as you saw now it will
also be available for Mac OS 10 with the
new aqua project builder based developer
tools and addition to Solaris hp-ux 11i
against one version of Java and will
work on this license key things you
don't have to cheat to deploy it on
different systems will make it so that
you can actually take that and deploy it
in any systems although beyond the
systems that we qualify you would be
responsible or working with the resource
of qualify it against different variants
of Linux or other operating systems that
you want to run it on but for those six
systems we would be responsible Mac OS
10 Mac OS 10 server windows Solaris
hp-ux
and probably Red Hat Pro Linux 62 or
whatever the current version is then we
would qualify our Java Runtime against
but you can still run it on any Java
capable system but the sole language
going forward is Java the existing
versions are still sold will continue
maintain them going forward for quite
some time yet so if existing code don't
worry you'll be able to keep running it
for quite a while going forward but
future development future migration
we're really working to focus on Java
because it delivers a whole bunch of
different benefits one of the big
benefits it makes a lot easier for us to
integrate with different service
is on different platforms Mac os10 we're
working very hard to make sure that it's
a world-class platform comparable to
Windows NT and Solaris for deploying as
well as developing web objects
applications we're talking to database
vendors directory service companies
middleware vendors to make sure that if
you have a structured data source that
your customers are using you want to be
able to access that through web objects
we have all the tools in place and
leveraging the power of Java with JDBC
and enterprise javabeans is a really
powerful tool for really expanding the
connectivity of web object solutions
this is just a really brief foretaste of
all there is to experience in web
objects as Steve said in the keynote we
have 18 sessions devoted to web objects
one down 17 to go a few of the more
relevant ones we have listed here right
after this there's a technical overview
session for those of you who kind of
glazed over a bit during the earlier
slide want to really understand how web
objects applications are built secondly
the direct to web and directive Java
technologies you will just see me the
marketing person showing to you you can
get down and dirty with the engineers
and understand what's really going on
behind the scenes on Wednesday morning
secondly another really big feature of
web objects 5 for Java is the ability to
integrate with enterprise javabeans so
still a work in progress but by
leveraging the power of Java and
everything else that's happening in the
industry we can deliver a whole new
dimension of interoperability and
finally for those of you who have
objective-c code we are providing
migration pads if you choose to move
forward at this time to allow you to
very easily or at least
straightforwardly
move your Justice League code to Java
and be able to start running
applications obviously some applications
are going to be harder than others or we
can very hard to make sure that there is
a smooth transition for our objective-c
customers and the you know millions of
lines of objective-c code that are there
which may need to move forward to a new
platform for more information there's a
huge lot of information available to you
there is a new web object website which
is been redesigned to reflect the new
announcements today we have a wobbling
slab available downstairs available
every day over the lunch hour go down
there you play with web objects 4 or 5
try and build a director java
application
get some feel for what this is and try
to think about how this might benefit
your customers or your development
technology you all have a web object
four or five evaluation CD with some
wonderful movies and dental is included
help you get a taste for what web
objects can do as well as some of the
training and other resources available
we're also announcing the web objects
community boss we have a huge vast
wealth of partners who've been working
with a platform for years who know a lot
some of them offer consulting services
some of them offer training services
some of them some very cool specialty
applications which might inspire you and
what you're doing they're all going to
be there and having their power books
and eye books in hand hopefully to show
you some of the cool things going on and
we'll just get together and hang out for
an hour and a half Wednesday we raise to
get the Civic Auditorium because we
didn't have enough room for the rest of
you anywhere else so across the street
that huge building maybe we'll pack that
out as well as we're doing here I'll be
sure to come by and bring a friend and
if you have technical questions during
the course of this week there's a a full
feedback at grouped at Apple comm
address where you can ask questions
about WWDC sessions this is not a
general tech support question but if
there's something that was covered in a
session that wasn't clear or you don't
know where to go next to find out more
information feel free to send email to
that technical low feedback email
address and the second line is supposed
to be web objects at grouped Apple comm
which is the marketing address for my
team which is currently just me but
working on hiring some more people to
help me take up the load because we've
got some really great things planned and
this is just the tip of the iceberg
you